Knowing how to set up and operate
a Continuous Integration server is a useful skill and we will practice those things.
But I would do you a great injustice,
if I made you think CI servers will automatically solve all of your problems.
It's true that Continuous Integration has
huge potential to help a development team work better together.
But there are some nuances of Continuous Integration
that an inexperienced Cloud developer might miss,
but have huge ramifications if they are mishandled.
So let's talk about some of the characteristics of
a healthy continuous integration pipeline.
Healthy CI Pipelines are the highest priority when the build is broken.
For continuous integration to work,
there has to be a small but significant cultural shift in the team that adopts it.
When the build breaks in CI,
getting the build to pass again,
needs to be the team's top priority.
This is because no new builds will be allowed to run
until the failing build goes green or passes.
In a factory, this is the equivalent of taking the entire production line down.
Many teams adopt the mantra,
if you broke it, you fix it.
But if one person can't fix it quickly,
it's worth it for the entire team to stop what they're doing,
involve more minds and get the production line running again.
Healthy CI Pipelines are trusted members of the team.
I'd like to consider CI as a member of the development team,
because it works hard on our source code just like the rest of the team does.
But imagine if CI reported every unit test failure and botched merge to management.
Imagine if CI went out of its way to
embarrass the engineer who introduced the build error.
Situations like this build an environment of blame and if we're not careful,
CI can be ground zero for some really unhealthy attitudes.
As a team member,
CI should be held to the same cultural standards as everyone else on the team,
including snitching and blame.
If it were a human member of the team,
those things would be dealt with or communicated with respect and professionalism.
We should expect the same from CI.
Healthy CI Pipelines have the same abilities as any other member of the team.
Sometimes I work with teams who tell me they can't build locally.
That it can only be built in CI,
because it has some special key or configuration or superpower that no one else has.
As a result, developers end up using CI as their local compiler and test runner.
They make small changes,
check them into code and wait for CI to say if the build broke or not.
Can you imagine the time wasted on this incredibly long feedback loop?
Can you imagine the expense from CI server resources needed to run each build?
A healthy build is one that passes and fails equally on CI and locally.
This requires that the CI server have
exactly the same abilities as a development team member.
No special access, hardware or magic.
Healthy CI Pipelines enforce team quality rules.
It is a beautiful thing when a team can come together
and agree upon rules around code quality,
code style, unit test coverage,
static analysis, and acceptable levels of security.
Introducing CI to a team can actually prompt those kinds of conversations.
Once a team comes to agreement,
the CI server should enforce those rules on every build.
The healthiest teams and CI Pipelines
actually allow the build to break when any rule is violated,
just as if the code had failed to compile.
Healthy CI Pipelines communicate useful information.
Unhealthy CI Pipelines, on the other hand,
fill up the teams email boxes and chat channels with useless,
repetitive or irrelevant information about builds and actions.
Too much chatter results in a lot fatigue and causes
a situation where the team no longer cares about messages from the CI server.
What if the build breaks?
We need the team to see that message.
The healthiest CI Pipelines communicate sparingly,
only the information that is timely, relevant, and actionable.
Healthy CI Pipelines are quick on their feet, so to speak.
They provide feedback to the development team as quickly as possible,
when there's a problem or they quickly move on to the next stage.
These pipelines are designed to run the quickest and least expensive stages first.
Shorter feedback loops, translate to lower-cost fixes and features faster to market.
Healthy CI Pipelines don't require stacks of documentation.
Have you ever had to troubleshoot a complex build system?
Then you know how valuable documentation can be.
On the other hand, the healthiest CI Pipelines I've seen,
have barely needed any documentation at all.
This is possible by following industry standards,
instead of clever tricks, naming things,
and expressive ways to give understanding at a glance and
keeping jobs and stages small, clean and predictable.
Healthy CI Pipelines are automated all the way to the end.
There are many times when it's nearly impossible to automate
the entire pipeline because of required stops along the way to a production delivery.
But the more of your pipeline that you can automate,
the healthier your pipeline will be.
Automated steps are healthier than manual steps because they are better documented,
more consistent, and more transparent.
Even if it's an unattainable goal to be fully automated,
it's still a good idea to shoot for the highest level of automation you can achieve.